#LR5
##Chapter 12 - Testing
####Test Mode

Rails applications can be run in 3 modes, or "environments": **Development**, **Test**, and **Production**. To switch from the default mode, _development_, to _test_ mode, issue the following command at the terminal command prompt:

		rails server -e test

####Setting Up a Test Database with Fixtures

**Fixtures** allow developers to define stable data for use in the test database. Fixtures are written in YAML and the Rails scaffolding generator provides us with the basic files in the _test/fixtures_ directory. 

Open _test/fixtures/students.yml_ in the text editor and change the existing generic fixtures to read as follows:

    magnum:
      given_name: Thomas
      middle_name: Sullivan
      family_name: Magnum
      date_of_birth: 1945-01-29
      grade_point_average: 2.92
      start_date: 1988-09-12

    rick:
      given_name: Orville
      middle_name: Wilbur
      family_name: Richard
      date_of_birth: 1943-07-23
      grade_point_average: 3.94
      start_date: 1988-09-12

    tc:
      given_name: Theodore
      middle_name:
      family_name: Calvin
      date_of_birth: 1939-12-18
      grade_point_average: 3.76
      start_date: 1988-09-12

These values, although obviously made-up, more closely represent those expected from our application. Likewise, update the _test/fixtures/awards.yml_ file with the following fixture data:

    pi:
      name: Private Investigator
      year: 1988
      student: magnum

    pilot:
      name: Helicopter Pilot - Island Hoppers
      year: 1990
      student: tc

    owner:
      name: King Kamehameha Club
      year: 1989
      student: rick

Finally, edit the contents of _test/fixtures/courses.yml_ like so:

    surveillance:
      name: Escape and Evasion
      students: magnum, rick

    security:
      name: "Personal and private property security"
      students: magnum, rick

    aviation:
      name: "Aviation Safety"
      students: tc

####Model Testing

Firstly, note the constraints defined in  in *students06/app/models/award.rb*:

    class Award < ActiveRecord::Base
      # every award is linked to a student, through student_id
      belongs_to :student

      validates_presence_of :name, :year

      # particular award can only be given once in every year
      validates_uniqueness_of :name, :scope => :year,
        :message => "already been given for that year"

      # we started the award scheme in 1980
      validates_inclusion_of :year, :in => (1980 .. Date.today.year)
    end

The model test files generated by Rails scaffolding are not particularly useful. Open *students06/test/models/award_test.rb* and add some code to ensure the `year` constraint behaves as expected:

    require 'test_helper'

    class AwardTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
      def test_validity_of_year

        # test for rejection of missing year
        award = Award.new({:name => "Test award"})
        assert !award.valid?

        # test under lower boundary
        award.year = 1979
        assert !award.valid?

        # lower boundary
        award.year = 1980
        assert award.valid?

        # top boundary
        award.year = Date.today.year
        assert award.valid?

        # top boundary case, award isn't valid for next year
        award.year = Date.today.year + 1
        assert !award.valid?
      end
    end


